.TH ms-extract 1
.SH NAME    \" Section header
.PP

ms-extract - Show genes in the neighborhood of specified gene

\" Convention:
\" Underline anything that is typed verbatim - commands, etc.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.nf 
.na 
ms-extract [--output-dir dir]
    [--adjacent-genes genes=4]
    [--max-nt-distance nucleotides=1000000]
    file.gff3 gene-list.txt
.ad
.fi

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB--output-dir\fR \fIdir\fR
Name of the directory where gene neighborhood GFF files are stored.
Default is ".".

.TP
\fB--adjacent-genes\fR \fIgenes=4\fR
Name of the directory where gene neighborhood GFF files are stored.
Default is 4.

.TP
\fB--max-nt-distance\fR \fInucleotides=1000000\fR
Name of the directory where gene neighborhood GFF files are stored.
Default is 1,000,000.

\" Optional sections
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B ms-extract
extracts gene neighborhoods for each gene in gene-list.txt from the given
GFF3 file, writing the output to separate GFF3 files, one for each gene.

The gene list file should contain one gene name per line.

By default, 4 upstream and 4 downstream genes are written along with the
gene of interest, as long as they overlap the maximum distance boundary
of 1,000,000 nucleotides.

The default number of adjacent genes and maximum distance can be overridden
using --adjacent-genes and --max-nt-distance.

For maximum efficiency, specify all genes of interest in a single command.
This allows multiple genes to be extracted in a single pass through the
input GFF file rather than sweeping it repeatedly for each gene.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
ms-intersect(1), ms-stack(1), ms-plot(1)

.SH BUGS
Please report bugs to the author and send patches in unified diff format.
(man diff for more information)

.SH AUTHOR
.nf
.na
J. Bacon
